# Cowan 1999 Mechanisms of active maintenance

- Cowan has a functional definition of working memory, i.e., working memory is a resource for maintaining bits of information in mind that are necessary for a task, be that producing or receiving language, problem solving, decision making etc.
- The components of working memory function in Cowan’s model simply involves a central executive that directs attention and attentional activation of chunks of information that are stored in long-term memory. These bits of information that are activated in LTM have to be maintained to be readily available to guide current behavior. But there is an hierarchical levels of activation. The lowest level constitutes of memory that is not activated, a middle layer of activated memory and an upper most level of information that is in the current window of attention.
- Information from different modalities, like visual imagery and auditory articulation, may be separable because they are stored in different regions of the brain but are all ultimately components of long-term memory. This is perhaps in slight opposition to Baddeley who represents these as different components of working memory; but Baddeley also acknowledges that these are related to their counterparts in the broader sense of processing.
- Cowan has a more formal description of classical attentional deployment for engagement of working memory. This probably aligns with Stocco, Prat and Anderson views of working memory. Anderson is included in this list since the ACT-R theory/cognitive architecture does not include a working memory module and instead relies on “Imaginal activation” which can more clearly be described as source activation resources that are available to activate chunks in the declarative, long-term memory module. If ever a compare question arises between Cowan and Baddeley, page 79 has a key argument of the differences which, to me do not seem very different...
- Cowan attempts at a no-capacity-limitation stance in respect to working memory but the argument is very opaque. Claims that there can be no limitation to the amount of LTM nodes or chunks that could be activated. He seemingly also does not agree with decay. These are plausible arguments but do not stand-up well to introspection. 